# MVL-PATHS
# Virtual Laboratory of Pathogen Transmission in Healthcare Settings


Welcome to the Virtual Laboratory of Enhanced Mathematical Models—a computational platform designed to support the simulation, evaluation, and refinement of strategies aimed at mitigating the spread of antimicrobial-resistant (AMR) pathogens.

This repository hosts a comprehensive suite of pre-developed, rigorously tested models that empower researchers, healthcare professionals, and policy analysts to explore the complex dynamics of disease transmission. The virtual laboratory enables the investigation of key drivers of pathogen spread and the estimation of the relative effectiveness of various control and prevention strategies in a timely and cost-efficient manner.

For more information please visit: https://sites.google.com/view/mvl-paths/home 

# Reducing Antimicrobial Resistance: a One Health Perspective
Antimicrobial Resistant (AMR) pathogens have become a significant public health threat. By developing and implementing novel mathematical and computation models, the long-term goals are to optimize AMR control and preventive interventions and to improve the health equity. The central hypothesis is that the outputs of mathematical and computation models will provide optimized and effective guidelines to reduce the threat of AMR pathogen spread and reduce health disparities in healthcare settings. The rationale underlying this project is to fill the critical gap in modeling workforce capacity and develop a new generation of mathematical models for healthcare research. The central hypothesis will be tested by pursuing three specific aims to develop and employ a, (i) One Health modeling approach to understand the source, distribution and spread of AMR Enterobacteriaceae with a focus on Extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL)-producing E. coli, (ii) a novel Real-Time modeling approach to identify AMR pathogen transmission by asymptomatic spreaders and contaminated medical devices in hospitals, (iii) a novel Agent-Based Nested modeling approach to identify the effects of caregivers as vectors of disease spread, and effects of limited staffing and specialized care on equitable quality of care in nursing homes. We will pursue these aims using an innovative combination of mathematical and computational modeling techniques. These include both recently developed techniques of including human behavior in models and more-established techniques that have been applied very little to the study of health equity and AMR pathogen spread. The workforce development objectives of this proposal are to (i) enhance mathematical and computational modeling research capabilities of the public health workforce and (ii) increase the number of junior modeling professionals that are trained and experienced in modeling transmission of pathogens in healthcare settings partly incorporated with health disparities.
